What is java?
java was developed by James Gosling at sun Microsystems in 1995 and later acquired by oracle
Java is a class based object oriented programming language
compliled java code can run on all platforms that supports java without the need for recompilation (Write Once Run Anywhere)
Widely used for developing applications for desktop , web and mobile devices

What is java used for?
Mobile App Development
Desktop GUI Applications
Web-based Applications
Gaming Applications
Big Data Technologies
Distributed Applications
Cloud-based Applications
IoT Applications


What is JRE?   Reference : https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/jre-in-java/
Java Runtime Environment is a software package that provides the Java class library, essential tools, and a built-in Java Virtual Machine (JVM) required to execute Java bytecode. 
It is necessary for running Java applications on any platform.

Working of JRE?
ava Development Kit (JDK) and Java Runtime Environment (JRE)  both interact with each other to create a sustainable runtime environment that enables Java-based applications to run seamlessly 
on any operating system. The  JRE runtime architecture consists of the following elements as listed:

ClassLoader
ByteCode verifier
Interpreter

ClassLoader: Java ClassLoader dynamically loads all the classes necessary to run a Java program. Because classes are only loaded into memory whenever they are needed,
the JRE uses ClassLoader will automate this process when needed. During the initialization of the JVM, three classLoaders are loaded:
Bootstrap class loader
Extensions class loader
System class loader

Bytecode Verifier  Reference : https://www.javatpoint.com/bytecode-verifier-in-java
The bytecode verifier is an integral part of the JVM responsible for ensuring that the bytecode being loaded and executed is valid and adheres to Java's safety and security requirements. It plays a vital role in preventing certain types of security vulnerabilities,
such as buffer overflows and pointer manipulation, which are common in languages like C and C++

Interpreter: After loading the byte code successfully, the Java interpreter creates an object of the Java virtual machine that allows the Java program to run natively on the underlying machine.


what is JVM?
JVM is a part of JRE(Java Runtime Environment). it provides platform independence as it allows the same java program to run on any device or operating system it executes java byte code
JVM is the one that calls main method present in a java code.

JVM architecture
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/jvm-works-jvm-architecture/


what is JDK?
The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a cross-platformed software development environment that offers a collection of tools and libraries necessary for developing Java-based software applications
if you are only interested in running Java programs on your machine then you can easily do it using Java Runtime Environment.
However, if you would like to develop a Java-based software application then along with JRE you may need some additional necessary tools, which is called JDK.


What is JIT?








